FileManager-Actions

  FileManager-Actions is an extension for file managers which allows the user
  to add arbitrary program to be launched through the popup menu of selected
  files.

FileManager-Actions components.

  FileManager-Actions has three sort of components:

  - A user interface, fma-config-tool, which let you manage your actions.
    With fma-config-tool, you are able to create, modify and delete actions,
    to define menus and submenus, to order and reorder items.
    Import/export functions are also managed via fma-config-tool.

  - Extensions as dynamically loadable plugins. These extensions are
    automatically loaded by Nautilus when it starts. For now, two extensions
    are provided:
    . libfma-FM-menu.so is a plugin which takes care of displaying
      actions in the context menus;
    . libfma-FM-tracker.so is a plugin which tracks the current
      selection, and sends it in response to a DBus request.

  - Command-line utilities (installed in PKGLIBEXECDIR):
     . fma-new lets you create new actions;
     . fma-run lets you execute a predefined action, taking
       into account the current file manager selection via a DBus call to the
       libfma-FM-tracker plugin;
     . fma-print-schemas prints the full GConf schemas on stdout;

FileManager-Actions plugins.

  I/O Providers.

    FileManager-Actions itself uses plugins to load menus and actions from
    the storage space. These plugins are installed in PKGLIBDIR, usually
    something as /usr/libexec/filemanager-actions/.

    Starting with 3.0.2, the preferred default I/O provider is 'io-desktop',
    which means that newly created actions and menus will be stored on
    disk as .desktop files, in accordance with DES-EMA specification [1].

  Importers/Exporters.

    FileManager-Actions also relies on plugins to import actions and menus,
    and to export them, in several formats.
    For now, FileManager-Actions is able to import/export its items as:
    . GConf schemas;
    . GConf dump;
    . XML;
    . .desktop files.

FileManager-Actions documentation.

  Documentation is provided in several formats:
  - developer documentation is provided as xml and html files, as generated
    by gtk-doc;
  - fma-config-tool user's manuals and general documentation is provided as
    xml, pdf and html files, as generated by gnome-doc-utils, docbook-utils or
    dblatex tools.

[1] https://specifications.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/desktop-entry-spec-latest.html#extra-actions
